If you want your content to perform
better, you have to avoid a few critical
mistakes. And it sounds so simple, but
the hard part is these mistakes are not
obvious to the average creator or brand.
Most people don't even know they're
making them. So, in this video, I'm
going to walk through the five biggest
content traps that are holding people
back from growing faster. And once you
solve for these, the content game will
be much, much easier. Now, I know this
works because I spend all my time at the
cutting edge of content and marketing. I
have a million followers. I've done
billions of views. So, if you feel like
you should be growing faster, this will
help you a ton. All right. Now, the
first massive content mistake is speed
versus size. Most people assume that
when they make content, more information
equals more value for the viewer. In
other words, if I just tell the viewer
more stuff, they will learn more and
trust me faster. And it makes sense that
this is the common assumption. But it
turns out this approach is actually a
massive mistake and one of the reasons
why your content isn't working. If you
give the viewer too much information,
even if it's all valuable independently
on its own, they'll get overwhelmed,
absorb nothing, and bounce. Because the
truth is, humans only have so much
capacity to consume new knowledge in one
sitting. This is why school classes
usually aren't 4 hours long. The human
brain likes to learn in bursts, let that
new knowledge sink in, and then revisit
it later. So, when you make content
trying to slam 10 different concepts
into one compressed video, most people
just can't absorb it. When this happens,
they get information overload and they
leave on a bad note. So, here's what you
should do instead. Instead of optimizing
your content for pure quantity of
information, you should optimize for the
speed of how fast you can lock in one
core learning. Because the truth is,
when you make content, you're really in
a race to see if you can transfer some
value into the viewer's brain before
they get bored and churned. If you can
beat their boredom and stick literally
any value at all, they will trust you
and keep watching. So, if you want
people to watch for longer, share with
their friends, and follow you, you need
to compress the time it takes for them
to get that initial hit of value. And
this means really focusing on cutting
the fluff at the beginning of your
content to bring the value closer to the
top. Here's a quick exercise to help
with this. When you read your script
back, highlight the first line where you
actually introduce something novel of
value. If that line is not in the first
7 to 10 seconds of a short form video or
45 to 60 seconds of a YouTube video,
it's taking way too long to get to the
value. You want to cut any fluff above
that highlighted line to bring the value
closer to the top. Once I started doing
this, every single content metric that I
measured was off the charts immediately.
So, if you can only work on one thing to
improve your content, it should be speed
to value. All right, content mistake
number two has to do with your approach
to finding new ideas. And when I say
ideas, I'm talking about the topic and
angle that you make your content about.
This is the most important and most
underrated aspect of the content
workflow. There's a reason why you hear
Mr. Beast talk adnauseium about how
important ideas are. It is the
difference between good and great on any
social platform or YouTube. Now, the
common assumption for most creators and
brands is that they have to come up with
super unique and original ideas every
single time. And this is one of the
reasons why making content feels so
stressful as a beginner. Because let's
face it, it's really hard to come up
with original ideas day after day after
day. Well, the reality is you don't
actually need original ideas to win with
content. Here's why. Humans are
creatures of habit. This means they tend
to behave the same way over and over.
So, if you find content that is already
outperformed for a given audience,
chances are that same content will
outperform again. And we know this is
true because the top creators literally
repost their exact same videos word for
word, frame for frame every four to six
months. and they work over and over. So,
here's what this means for you. If you
want a way to generate a hundred new
proven ideas in just 20 minutes, follow
this exact process. Go to sandcastles.ai
and build a watch list of the top
creators or channels in your space. If
you don't know who the best channels
are, just find one, go to who they're
following, and build the list from
there. Once you have that watch list
built in Sandcastles, go to the videos
tab, filter by that watch list, and
you'll see all the videos from just
those channels aggregated in one feed.
You can then filter and sort those
videos to show you the ones with the
most views, the most engagement, the
highest outlier score across literally
any metric you want for any post date
range you can think of. When you do
this, you'll start to notice patterns
for what has already worked from the top
channels in your space. You can take
those ideas, use those hooks, find those
visual formats, and remix the winning
ideas for yourself. Now, here's why this
works so well. Virgil Abau was a famous
designer that came up with the 3% rule.
He said, "All you have to do to make
something your own is take something
that already works, change it 3%, and
then you've got something new." What I
just described is the 3% philosophy for
content ideation. Except for you, you
can remix 20, 30, even 50% still using
that same content idea. And it will work
because humans behave the same way over
and over. I promise you, if you approach
your idea generation like this, your hit
rate for winners, how often you have a
viral video, will go way up. And this is
the process that all the top creators,
the top brands, and the top agencies are
using to come up with content every
single day that outperforms. So, if
you're not approaching ideation in this
way, you're just making the game way
harder on yourself. All right, content
mistake number three is misunderstanding
how the algorithm actually works. Now, I
made a ton of videos breaking down the
science, math, and psychology for how
social algorithms are built. But let's
just simplify it here. Most people think
that if they try really hard, the
algorithm will eventually reward their
content by pushing it. and when it
doesn't that there's somebody in the
back end trying to shadowban them or
just hates what they're doing. Here's
the truth. The algorithm does not care
about you. It doesn't have feelings. It
doesn't care where you went to high
school. It doesn't care what you look
like. All it wants is for users on the
platform to spend time watching and
sharing the content that you make.
That's it. If you can get people to
watch and share, the algorithm will push
your content to everybody. I guarantee
it. Now, if you want to make lots of
watch time and shares happen, you need
your content to create an emotional
transfer in the viewer that ends up
sparking a discussion in the comments or
sparking a discussion in the group chat.
When it comes to algorithms, emotional
transfers in the viewer are the key.
That's the one thing that matters most.
Now, emotional transfers are things like
shock, sadness, fear, awe, or
inspiration. So, the million-dollar
question when it comes to content and
algorithms really is this. How do I
ratchet up the emotional transfer in my
videos without coming off as cringey or
over sensationalized? And here's the
best exercise for increasing the
emotional response that you drive in
your videos. When you read your script
back, ask yourself one question. What
are the top three comments that I expect
to see from this video? One from a super
fan, one from a neutral observer, and
one from a super hater. If there's not a
clear diving board into a discussion for
each of those three groups, then your
script is not emotionally charged
enough. And I call this emotional charge
your commentary value score. The best
videos have an extremely high commentary
value in that when they're posted, the
comment sections go crazy. So, if you
want the algorithm to push your video to
others, you need to increase the
commentary value score. Now, there's
three ways you can improve your CBS. One
is to take a stronger point of view on
either side of the issue. The people
that believe you will back you, and the
people that don't will argue. Two is to
use more words that lead the viewer into
the emotional charge you're trying to
drive them to. So if you want them to
feel scared, saying the words, "This is
scary," will help push them there. And
the third way is to seed the discussion,
not with a question, but a subtle
reference for how the target group will
be affected by the topic. So for
example, let's say you're making a video
on the future of AI and its impact on
children's ability to learn. Now, that
topic is already default pretty large,
which is good. So to further increase
the CBS on this topic, you could include
a few examples talking specifically
about how children will succeed or fail
in AI. You could use words like scary,
uncertain, or unknown. Or you could
plant a stake in the ground on one side
or the other for where your point of
view lies. And by doing any of these
things or all three, that will spark
insane discussion. The CVS will go up,
the watch time and shares will go up,
and the algorithm will push your video.
The takeaway is this. The secret to
activating the algorithm to really
ratchet it up is by driving an intense
emotional transfer in the viewer. All
right, content mistake number four is
about the process of making each piece
of content. specifically figuring out
how to build a system for improving from
rep to rep. Most people can see a great
video, look at their own, realize
there's a pretty big gap there, but then
not know what to do to close that gap.
They'll try to change a bunch of
different things from rep to rep, it
still won't work, and they won't know
exactly where to go next. So, here's a
non-obvious framework that really helped
me improve my intentionality when it
came to iteration. And this helped me
close the gap from bad to good to great
much faster. The framework is called
content Legos. Every video can be broken
down into a series of independent Legos.
Think of them literally like a stack of
different colored and shaped blocks that
makes up the video. For short form
video, there are seven different content
Legos. The topic, the angle, the hook
format, the storytelling style, the
visual format, the key visuals, and the
audio. Those seven pieces stacked
together in colors and shapes to make
the individual video. For YouTube, it's
those seven plus title thumbnail. So,
there's nine. Now, what this means and
why it's so helpful is that when you're
trying to figure out what to improve in
your video, all you have to do is key in
on an individual Lego block and focus on
solving that first. You fix that, find a
new piece, swap those out, and then you
have a new video. If you go
incrementally like this, it's way easier
to find the problem and improve each
aspect. So, for example, you might feel
like your hooks are the reason why your
videos are underperforming. You have a
good sense for picking which topics you
like. you have a visual format that you
like, but you just don't like the way
you execute the hooks, and you know, it
could be better. What you can do is
isolate the fact that the hook format is
what's wrong. Go to sand castles and
look at the hooks from all the top
performing videos in your niche. This
allows you to put blinders on, and focus
on the one element that you want to
improve. You take your hook block, you
find one that's working from someone
else, take that block, and swap it in.
Now, you have a new stack of Legos. six
are the same, but the hook has changed.
And you can run that a few times to test
if your hypothesis was true. This is
kind of like using the scientific method
to experiment on individual pieces
instead of changing everything from rep
to rep. And what I found is the process
of breaking down videos into individual
components makes it way easier to focus
on what to change. Now, here's a pro
tip. When it comes to building a
signature style, most creators use the
same hook format, storytelling style,
visual format, and audio over and over.
So when it comes time to make a new
video, all they change is the topic
angle and the visuals. So I'm telling
you, thinking about the video in terms
of components, content Legos, makes it
way, way easier. All right, content
mistake number five is about mindset.
And this is really important for
beginners. The common assumption from
creators, entrepreneurs, and brands is
that they're just too late to enter the
content game. That every content niche
is full, that there are way too many
creators that are already so good, and
the gap to close is just too far. That's
the common excuse pattern. Let me dispel
this for you. once and for all. The
content game is always open, especially
now that followers and subscribers are
no longer the gatekeepers to getting
views. When for you algorithms became
the prominent way to rank content in
2022, this shifted everything where
literally anyone could get a million
views on their first video. And this
really means that every content category
is wide open every single day. In fact,
because of this, you could argue that
social media and YouTube are now more up
for grabs than in any era previously.
So, if you're overthinking and getting
blocked about starting making content
because of this narrative, take it from
me. We are in the golden era if you want
to enter the content game. Now, I will
admit it's not all roses and rainbows.
The problem if you're starting out in
this era is that the quality bar
required to hit a home run with content
is much, much higher than it was 10
years ago. And so, while the walls of
the garden have come down, the distance
between the entrance and the throne is
much wider. But if you're ambitious,
this is the best time in history to be
playing the content game because you can
beat anybody, no matter how big their
following is. All right, guys. That is
all we've got in this video. Now, as a
reminder, if you're a business owner and
you're focused on improving your content
over the next 6 to 12 months, I've got a
free community that I built just for
you. It's called Wavy World. We have 65
free trainings and over 33,000
entrepreneurs, all working together to
help each other get better with their
content. It's a really great community
and it has everything you need to really
take the next step forward with social
media or YouTube. So, I got a free
invite link in the description if you
want to join. All right, that's all I've
got here. We will see you guys on the
next one. Peace.